IDRISMakeLib - 06/29/2016
-------------------------


Summary:

IDRISMakeLib is a translator/conversion program to move CADOL source code into VB6 source code, which can then be compiled and run.


CADOL overview:

The CADOL programming language is a 3GL GOTO language with syntax similar to BASIC and ASSEMBLER.
It has a fixed number of variables and memory buffers which are global to all programs.
There are built-in commands for reading and writing a single record at a time, as well as sorting records.
Programs are grouped into libraries.
Transfer of control can be done with GOTO (same program) and LOAD (other program same library).
A call stack allows for GOS/RETURN (same program) and GOSUB/RETURN (other program same library).
User input consists of keyboard only.
User output consists of screen (80x24 chars with attributes) and printed reports.


IDRIS environment overview:

The IDRIS environment contains all the items necessary to run CADOL programs in a Windows environment using a SQL database.
Source code is edited using IDRIS_IDE.
Source code is translated into VB6 code using IDRISMakeLib.
Compiling the translated code into executable code (library) is done with VB6.
The executable libraries are all named "LIB_*.exe".
There are a set of VB6 source files included in each executable library which perform the operations of each CADOL command, IDRISQuantumRT.
The user interacts with the program IDRISClient to handle keyboard input and screen output.
There is a server program IDRISServer2, which connects IDRISClients to the proper executable library, using WINSOCK.
The IDRISClient program then communicates directly with the executable library using WINSOCK.


What happens in IDRISMakeLib:

CADOL source code *.k is read from a source folder, file by file.
An intermediate result is stored as a *.cvp file.
The final result is stored as a VB6 program, *.bas.
A VB6 project file *.vbp is created to include all the compiled programs for one library, plus all supporting programs.
The VB6 compile is run on the *.vbp to create LIB_*.exe.
The majority of the work is done by the CompileCadol.dll project.

First Pass:

Comments are removed.
Splits all line elements using the TAB characters.
Handles END, RENAME, EQUATE, and INCLUDE meta commands.

Second Pass:

The majority of command parsing is done.
Expressions with numeric/alpha terms and targets are handled.
Commands with transfer of control are expanded but not yet resolved.

Third Pass:

Transfer of control statements updated with actual line numbers.
Result is stored in a *.cvp intermediate file.

Fourth Pass:

Literal strings are updated to use double-quote chars only.
Cadol commands are translated into VB6 function calls.
IF blocks are translated into proper VB6 IF structure.
Buffer assignment commands are handled.
Alpha and Numeric assigment with offset are handled.
GOTO, GOS, LOAD, GOSUB commands are translated into VB6.
ENTER and EDIT commands are translated into VB6.
WHEN event commands are translated into VB6.
Commands with repeat counts are handled.

Fifth Pass:

VB6 source headers and footers are added to make compilable programs.
Jumppoint intro section is added for handling GOSUB/RETURN.

Final Steps:

VB6 Project file is generated.
VB6.EXE is called to compile the project file.
